README.md, before:

# Goal Tracking app

A teaching template for building secure web applications with Node.js, Express, EJS, and PostgreSQL.

## Features

- 🚀 **Node.js 20** + **Express 4** - Modern JavaScript backend
- 🎨 **EJS** - Server-side templating
- 🗄️ **PostgreSQL** - Reliable relational database
- 🔒 **Security First** - Helmet, CSRF protection, secure sessions
- 📝 **Clean Code** - ESLint, Prettier, best practices
- 🎓 **Educational** - Well-documented, instructional code

## Quick Start

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repository-url>
   cd cs346-semester-project-template
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your database credentials
   ```

4. **Set up PostgreSQL database**
   ```bash
   # Create database (adjust credentials as needed)
   createdb your_database_name
   ```

5. **Run migrations**
   ```bash
   npm run migrate
   ```

6. **Seed database (optional)**
   ```bash
   npm run seed
   ```

7. **Start the application**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

8. **Open your browser**
   ```
   http://localhost:3000
   ```

## Project Structure

```
├── src/
│   ├── server.js           # Server entry point
│   ├── app.js              # Express app configuration
│   ├── routes/             # Route definitions
│   ├── controllers/        # Request handlers
│   ├── models/             # Database models
│   ├── views/              # EJS templates
│   └── public/             # Static files (CSS, JS, images)
├── db/
│   ├── migrations/         # Database migrations
│   ├── seeds/              # Database seeds
│   ├── migrate.js          # Migration runner
│   ├── seed.js             # Seed runner
│   └── reset.js            # Database reset script
├── docs/                   # Documentation
│   ├── README.md           # Documentation overview
│   ├── SETUP.md            # Setup guide
│   └── ARCHITECTURE.md     # Architecture details
├── .env.example            # Environment variables template
├── .eslintrc.json          # ESLint configuration
├── .prettierrc.json        # Prettier configuration
└── package.json            # Dependencies and scripts
```

## Available Scripts

- `npm start` - Start production server
- `npm run dev` - Start development server with auto-reload
- `npm run migrate` - Run database migrations
- `npm run seed` - Seed database with sample data
- `npm run reset` - Reset database (WARNING: deletes all data!)
- `npm run lint` - Check code for linting errors
- `npm run lint:fix` - Fix linting errors automatically
- `npm run format` - Format code with Prettier

## Security Features

- **Helmet**: Sets security-related HTTP headers
- **express-session**: Secure session management with httpOnly cookies
- **csurf**: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) protection
- **Parameterized SQL**: SQL injection prevention with prepared statements
- **Environment Variables**: Sensitive data kept out of source code

## Documentation

Comprehensive documentation is available in the `docs/` folder:

- [docs/README.md](docs/README.md) - Documentation overview
- [docs/SETUP.md](docs/SETUP.md) - Detailed setup instructions
- [docs/ARCHITECTURE.md](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) - Architecture and design patterns

## Technology Stack

- **Runtime**: Node.js 20
- **Framework**: Express 4
- **Templating**: EJS
- **Database**: PostgreSQL (with pg driver)
- **Security**: Helmet, express-session, csurf
- **Development**: ESLint, Prettier, Nodemon

## Learning Resources

- [Express.js Documentation](https://expressjs.com/)
- [EJS Documentation](https://ejs.co/)
- [PostgreSQL Documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/)
- [Node.js Documentation](https://nodejs.org/docs/)
- [OWASP Security Guide](https://owasp.org/)

## Contributing

This is a teaching template. Feel free to:
- Report issues
- Suggest improvements
- Submit pull requests
- Use it for your own projects

## License

ISC

Commit message:

UI feature (#1)
* redesign landing + layout, add glass nav, fix EJS/CSRF, and clean routes/assets

* Update README.md

Just modified description of the app

* Changed spacing of indents from 2 spaces to 1 tab for uniformity.

Moved multiple buttons such as new goal on the index file to be part of the if statement meaning they only appear if logged in, and made those buttons centered and justified in the nav bar.

Updated the README slightly.

---------

Co-authored-by: ZafeerurRahim <rahimza88@uwosh.edu>
Co-authored-by: Taylor8001 <132090709+Taylor8001@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# CS346 Semester Project Goal tracking web application
A modern, secure web application built with Node.js, Express, EJS, and PostgreSQL 
for managing and tracking personal goals.

# Authors
Zafeer Rahim & Taylor Showalter

## Features

- 🚀 **Node.js 20** + **Express 4** - Modern JavaScript backend
- 🎨 **EJS** - Server-side templating
- 🗄️ **PostgreSQL** - Reliable relational database
- 🔒 **Security First** - Helmet, CSRF protection, secure sessions
- 📝 **Clean Code** - ESLint, Prettier, best practices

## how to Start

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/UWO-CS346-Fall-25/cs346f25-goal-tracker-app.git
   cd filepath/cs346f25-goal-tracker-app
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables, this step to 6 are skippable till the actual database is setup**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your database credentials
   ```

4. **Set up PostgreSQL database**
   ```bash
   # Create database (adjust credentials as needed)
   createdb your_database_name
   ```

5. **Run migrations**
   ```bash
   npm run migrate
   ```

6. **Seed database (optional)**
   ```bash
   npm run seed
   ```

7. **Start the application**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

8. **Open your browser**
   ```
   http://localhost:3000
   ```

## Project Structure

```
├── src/
│   ├── server.js           # Server entry point
│   ├── app.js              # Express app configuration
│   ├── routes/             # Route definitions
│   ├── controllers/        # Request handlers
│   ├── models/             # Database models
│   ├── views/              # EJS templates
│   └── public/             # Static files (CSS, JS, images)
├── db/
│   ├── migrations/         # Database migrations
│   ├── seeds/              # Database seeds
│   ├── migrate.js          # Migration runner
│   ├── seed.js             # Seed runner
│   └── reset.js            # Database reset script
├── docs/                   # Documentation
│   ├── README.md           # Documentation overview
│   ├── SETUP.md            # Setup guide
│   └── ARCHITECTURE.md     # Architecture details
├── .env.example            # Environment variables template
├── .eslintrc.json          # ESLint configuration
├── .prettierrc.json        # Prettier configuration
└── package.json            # Dependencies and scripts
```

## Available Scripts

- `npm start` - Start production server
- `npm run dev` - Start development server with auto-reload
- `npm run migrate` - Run database migrations
- `npm run seed` - Seed database with sample data
- `npm run reset` - Reset database (WARNING: deletes all data!)
- `npm run lint` - Check code for linting errors
- `npm run lint:fix` - Fix linting errors automatically
- `npm run format` - Format code with Prettier

## Security Features

- **Helmet**: Sets security-related HTTP headers
- **express-session**: Secure session management with httpOnly cookies
- **csurf**: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) protection
- **Parameterized SQL**: SQL injection prevention with prepared statements
- **Environment Variables**: Sensitive data kept out of source code

## Documentation

Comprehensive documentation is available in the `docs/` folder:

- [docs/README.md](docs/README.md) - Documentation overview
- [docs/SETUP.md](docs/SETUP.md) - Detailed setup instructions
- [docs/ARCHITECTURE.md](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) - Architecture and design patterns

## Technology Stack

- **Runtime**: Node.js 20
- **Framework**: Express 4
- **Templating**: EJS
- **Database**: PostgreSQL (with pg driver)
- **Security**: Helmet, express-session, csurf
- **Development**: ESLint, Prettier, Nodemon

## Learning Resources

- [Express.js Documentation](https://expressjs.com/)
- [EJS Documentation](https://ejs.co/)
- [PostgreSQL Documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/)
- [Node.js Documentation](https://nodejs.org/docs/)
- [OWASP Security Guide](https://owasp.org/)

## Contributing

This is a teaching template. Feel free to:
- Report issues
- Suggest improvements
- Submit pull requests
- Use it for your own projects

## License

ISC
